Complete Java Guide:

Confusing terms: Bit is smallest unit of data in computer. It can store only o(off) or 1(on). 1 byte = 8 bits=00000000 why 8 bits because earlier computers
				 decided 8 bits is a good size to store a character.So, total combinations 2^8=256 i.e 0-255. So, 1 byte can store 256 different values.

1. Java is more readable language just looking at the code we can understand it because it has more lines of code.
2. Java is WORA write once read anywhere.
3. Java is developed by sun microsystems led by james in 1995 later developed my oracle.
4. In IDE we can write, run, compile everything it stands for Integrated development Environment.
5. Java is platform independent because JVM understands only byte code, we write code in .java(source code) extension file when it compiles it converts that 
   into .class(byte code) extension file which is byte code and that can be run by JVM. JRE provides external libraries. JDK provides JRE and JVM when we install it.
6. JVM will look for one file which has main method and that file has info abouteveryfile present in that project.i.e, it looks for particular 
   signature which has public static void main(String[] args)
7. Java is object oriented everything in java is a object to create object we need class.
8. Instead of storing data in database which is permanent we create variables which is temporary. Variable has a name and value.
9. Java is Strongly typed language so we need to mention type of data we are using when creating a variable.
10. 2 types of data primitive and non primitive. 
11. Primitive means in java there are lot of inbuild data types. It is basic and simple easy to work with.Integer(byte,short,long,int), Float(double,float), Boolean, Character.
12. Integer: byte - 1 byte 8 bits: short-2 bytes 16 bits: int - 4 bytes 32 bits: long 8 bytes 64 bits.
13. Float: float-4 bytes 32 bits: double 8 bytes 64 bits double is default in java because it has not particular precision(after decimal point particular numbers) unlike float.
    for float we need to explicitly mention while declaring eg: float num=5.6f; for double it's not required.
14. Character char:2 bytes Java follows unicode which supports every language instead of ascii(1 byte) which supports only english A-65 a-97
15. Boolean: boolean b=true/false
16. type Conversion: we can't assign an integer to byte beacuse we can loose data but we can assign a byte to an integer i.e implicit conversion.
	we can do explicit conversion i.e called casting . eg byte b=(byte) a which is an integer.
17. Type promotion: it will promote the data type eg: byte a=10, b=20 int a=a*b; it automatically converts.
18. post increment: num++ fetch and increment:int n=1 int result=n++ print(result)=1 pre increment: increment and fetch:int n=1 int result=++n print(result)=2
19. 